Welcome back.
Now, we're going to talk a little
bit about hardware architecture.
You might ask yourself sort of
why all these terms, and words,
and central processing unit, what I
want from this section is I just want to
define a few terms, so that I can
use them in the rest of the course.
That's really it.
I want you to have some sense of
the basic block diagram of things.
Now in the old days, I'm going to show
you three generations of hardware.
I'm going to show you really old
hardware from the 60s and 70s.
I'm going to show you sort of medium old
hardware from the 90s and early 2000s.
And then, I'm going to show
you sort of super brand new
hardware that sort of this
is a Raspberry Pi and
it's the kind of highly integrated hardware
that goes into things like the cellphone.
So I'll kind of be going back and
forth between three complete
generations of hardware.
But the picture and the concepts that I
want you to understand are these terms.
Central processing unit,
main memory, secondary memory unit,
and input/output devices.
So we'll start with
input/output devices.
They are the way that this computer
accesses the outside world.
So things like the mouse, the keyboard,
right, I got a keyboard here.
Keyboard.
Screen.
All these things.
I don't want to mess
up the keyboard there.
And so these are the input/output devices.
There is a little, that's okay just mess
up a little bit, no problem at all.
Output devices, screens, and
that's sort of how the humans in
the outside world interact.
Software, the main inside the computer,
we have the central processing unit, and
the main memory, and
then the secondary memory.
And so it's probably easier for
me to take the, neither the oldest nor
the newest, to give you a sense
of what is going on here.
And so, if you had a desktop and maybe you
still have one of these junky old desktops
at home, they are the ones that are big
and they make noise when they start up,
they have in them a number
of different parts and
the closest thing that a computer
has to intelligence is this.
Central processing unit,
CPU is what we call them.
And if you look at the back side of
this CPU it is actually a circuit.
It's a highly sophisticated circuit
with millions of transistors on it, and
you've probably heard that,
millions of transistors. It runs
maybe three billion
instructions per second.
What does that mean?
Well that means that an instruction
is a set of electrical pulses,
maybe 32 little wires or 64 little wires.
And at three billion times a second,
this is programmed to ask what's next.
And it pulls what's next in
these little electric wires.
Well, where does it get
the answer to what's next?
It gets the answer to what's next out
of the memory. And so your program,
when you write a program, let me
draw this, when you write a program,
you create a file on the secondary memory,
like a Python file, and then at some point
that is loaded into the main memory,
translated, and then your program is here.
And then when the CPU says what next,
your program feeds its first instruction.
And then when that's done,
the CPU says what's next?
It feeds the second instruction,
third instruction, fourth instruction.
It's called the fetch-execute cycle.
And these two parts, the CPU and
the main memory, are what participate.
And the main memory is
where you kind of live.
Somewhere in there, a little tiny
version of yourself is in there
answering the questions
that this is asking.
Now you might say how smart is this,
it's not really very smart at all. It's
a really fast hand calculator with lots of
storage is the best way to think about it.
And going back to the 60s and the 70s,
this is a piece of hardware from
a computer that was the size
of a room with probably 20 refrigerators,
all with modules that make this up.
And in here, well you probably
can't see it, you've got resistors,
transistors, and
capacitors, and then wires.
The wires are all printed on this printed
circuit board, otherwise known as PCB.
And so, the closest thing this has to
intelligence are these transistors.
And at their simplest,
what they can do is they can sort of
make really simple yes/no decisions.
And then they also can be used,
if you hook them together the right way,
to store a little bit of information.
And so, when we say there
are millions of transistors
packed into this little
tiny square right here.
It's kind of pretty.
I mean, if you look at it, it's sort of,
it looks almost like a jewel, it's so pretty.
And each one of those is a real
tiny photo-imprinted transistor and
so there are millions of this.
And so the difference between 1960 and
today is this part gets smaller and
smaller and smaller to the point where
literally thousands of these things
are all squeezed in to that little square.
And coming back to sort of the mid-grade
one, so this one here is the motherboard.
This part here is the motherboard because
it's the mother of all boards and
it connects everything together.
All these components plug in and
that's how they are connected together and
there's a whole bunch of wires that
go back and forth on this and so
this is how your program in a sense is
transported from the memory to the CPU.
And so, this motherboard connects them.
Another thing that's connected to
the motherboard is secondary storage.
Now, the reason we have to have
secondary memory or secondary storage
is this is designed to be really fast,
the main memory is super fast.
And what happens is when
the computer turns off,
your program is erased from here.
And so I originally said that
you write your program, and
you put a file in here, a .py file, and
this is the same place that your Word
files are, and your PowerPoints are.
And then, the .py file is kind of loaded
and translated into the main memory.
And then when the computer shuts off,
all this data goes away.
Secondary memory is permanent.
This does not get shut off.
And so, in the old days,
this old-day stuff,
we used to store our programs and
our files on our hard drive.
And you may even have a computer at home
where there's a actual physical spinning
platter of magnetic media and
a little head that goes in and
out to read and write the data.
And so it actually records
magnetically when you put a file in,
it records it and then when the power's
off the magnetic recording stays here.
And so these things,
physical disk drives, are kind of going,
becoming extinct, because all the data
is in little USB sticks like this, and
that's a perfectly good
version of secondary memory.
But at least for us,
we can look at these beautiful antique
mechanical gadgets that we used to store
data magnetically when the power goes off.
Now, this one here is pretty broken.
[LAUGH] And it's pretty in bad shape, so
it's probably not really
storing much of anything.
So in a summary of this picture,
the thing I really want you to get out of
this picture is a series of definitions.
The Central Processing Unit
is very simple,
it's the closest thing
computers have to brains, but
it wants to answer the question what to
do next, but we have to feed, through memory.
the answers, which is your programs.
And then we have input devices,
output devices, the main memory, and
then the larger permanent
storage in the secondary memory.
So, where you live inside of a computer
is basically in the main memory.
When you write a program, you type it in
the computer, you outside the computer
are typing on your keyboard, and
you're typing Python commands into a file.
Like if x less than 3, print, right?
And then, that gets loaded into the
main memory, and
so you,
this is a creative version of yourself.
It's your instructions that
are going to be run and
that program ends up in the main memory,
and then it's run.
So, this is sort of where you
live inside the computer.
Think of it that way.
You're living in main memory when
your program is actually executing.
Now, it turns out that
the instructions that this
central processor uses
are a series of zeroes and ones.
And when I said like 32 zeroes and
ones, or 64 zeroes and
ones, simultaneously are fed into this for
each of the instructions.
We use a language called machine language.
And I would love some day to
teach you machine language, but
we don't have time right now, and you,
that is more moving towards being
a computer scientist when you start
learning machine language, but
basically we don't have to worry
about that too much, we write Python.
And we write in Python and
then something effectively translates
it into machine language and
then machine language is the thing that
runs and runs and runs and runs and so.
Someday you might take a look for that,
but that's more of a computer science
thing and
the software that does this translation,
which is either called a compiler or
an interpreter,
we can talk more about that when you
become more of a computer scientist.
But for now, we're going to worry
about how to write this code and
the rest of this sort is going to fall
by the wayside as we go forward.
So, I got a couple of videos here.
This one video,
hopefully the YouTube URL is still good,
if not we'll try to find another way
to get you linked to a good copy of it.
But it, basically, these, as I said,
there are millions of transistors
in one of these things, and there's a lot
of electricity going through these things.
And when your computer
heats up on your lap,
it's this little part here
that's working really hard.
Its doing things three billion times a second.
So someone has made a video,
not a very good video, but
it's from a long time ago,
where you take the cooling part off and
you watch what happens to these CPUs when
they're doing all this work three billion
times a second using all this electricity
and they're not properly cooled.
Another cool video that we have
is a video of hard drives and
how they actually spin in reality.
This one is totally messed up because
I've been beating on it for years and
playing with it, using it in all my
classes for years, so it's in really bad shape.
But this video shows you how that works
and how it actually spins in reality.
And you'll hear noises that if
you have or had a desktop computer,
you'll kind of recognize the noise, and
then you'll have an idea of what's going
on inside that computer as that
secondary storage is moving around.
And like I said, secondary storage is
becoming less and less relevant as we move
to solid-state storage, like the kind
of storage that's in a USB stick.
So up next, we're going to talk
about how we write that Python.
I talked a little about the hardware now,
and
now we're going to get
started writing some Python.